                                VME 2.0
								
The VME 2.0 has been designed to be one of the most flexible and
powerful mud engines on the net.  Our only problem is our Documents are
lagging the development of the actual base code.  The documents that
exist give you the full power to adjust the mud in anyway you want but
they are a little hard to read.  We are however working on new
documents, we believed it would be better to release the VME 2.0 rather
than make our users wait on the finished documents.  With that in mind
we have three test documents that are no where near being finished that
are available to be accessed by the web.  The following is the schedule
for the release of the documents.  This schedule is of corse flexible
but I am going to try to stick to it.  

Zone writing manual: 
Mud.blinksoft.com/~whistler/basic/basiczone.html
Possible Completion date: July 1, 2001

Dil Manual:
mud.blinksoft.com/~whistler/dil4.html
Possible Completion date: December 1, 2001

Command and Skill manual:
mud.blinksoft.com/~whistler/command/command.html
Possible Completion date: April 1, 2001

When everything is done we hope to only have two manuals.  The command
manual will be added to the Dil manual and both the Zone manual and the
Dil manual will be accessible on the web or printable as a document.

The documents that exist have been converted to text file format and
placed in the directory with this file.  We suggest though that you use
the documents on our web page because they are indexable and make
reading and researching much easier than plain text, not only that but
the documents on our 'www.valhalla.com' will always be the most up to
date.

Any documents your mud has designed and want to have added to our
builders library please feel free to donate them to the VME staff.

Ken Perry /Whistler@valhalla.com




								
