f St. John, white robes are given to
the redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white
before the great white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there
white like wool; yet for all these accumulated associations, with
whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime, there yet lurks an
elusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more
of panic to the soul than that redness which affrights in blood.

This elusive quality it is, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupled with any object
terrible in itself, to heighten that terror to the furthest bounds.
Witness the white bear of the poles, and the white shark of the
tropics; what but their smooth, flaky whiteness makes them the
transcendent horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness it is which
imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even more loathsome than terrific,
to the dumb gloating of their aspect. So that not the fierce-fanged
tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded
bear or shark.[5]

 [5] With reference to the Polar bear, it may possibly be urged by him
 who would fain go still deeper into this matter, that it is not the
 whiteness, separately regarded, which heightens the intolerable
 hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
 it might be said, only arises from the circumstance, that the
 irresponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the
 fleece of celestial innocence and love; and hence, by bringing
 together two such opposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear
 frightens us with so unnatural a contrast. But even assuming all this
 to be true; yet, were it not for the whiteness, you would not have
 that intensified terror.
    As for the white shark, the white gliding ghostliness of repose in
    that creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely tallies
    with the same quality in the Polar quadruped. This peculiarity is
    most vividly hit by the French in the name they bestow upon that
    fish. The Romish mass for the dead begins with “Requiem eternam”
    (eternal rest), whence _Requiem_ denominating the mass itself, and
    any other funereal music. Now, in allusion to the white, silent
    stillness of death in this shark, and the mild deadliness of his
    habits, the French call him _Requin_.

Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come those clouds of spiritual
wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in all
imaginations? Not Coleridge first threw that spell; but God’s great,
unflattering laureate, Nature.[6]

 [6] I remember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a
 prolonged gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my
 forenoon watch below, I ascended to the overclouded deck; and there,
 dashed upon the main hatches, I saw a regal, feathery thing of
 unspotted whiteness, and with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. At
 intervals, it arched forth its vast archangel wings, as if to embrace
 some holy ark. Wondrous flutterings and throbbings shook it. Though
 bodily unharmed, it uttered cries, as some king’s ghost in
 supernatural distress. Through its inexpressible, strange eyes,
 methought I peeped to secrets which took hold of God. As Abraham
 before the angels, I bowed myself; the white thing was so white, its
 wings so wide, and in those for ever exiled waters, I had lost the
 miserable warping memories of traditions and of towns. Long I gazed at
 that prodigy of plumage. I cannot tell, can only hint, the things that
 darted through me then. But at last I awoke; and turning, asked a
 sailor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Goney! I never had
 heard that name before; is it conceivable that this glorious thing is
 utterly unknown to men ashore! never! But some time after, I learned
 that goney was some seaman’s name for albatross. So that by no
 possibility could Coleridge’s wild Rhyme have had aught to do with
 those mystical impressions which were mine, when I saw that bird upon
 our deck. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to
 be an albatross. Yet, in saying this, I do but indirectly burnish a
 little brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.
    I assert, then, that in the wondrous bodily whiteness of the bird
    chiefly lurks the secret of the spell; a truth the more evinced in
    this, that by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey
    albatrosses; and these I have frequently seen, but never with such
    emotions as when I beheld the Antarctic fowl.
    But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and I
    will tell; with a treacherous hook and line, as the fowl floated on
    the sea. At last the Captain made a postman of it; tying a
    lettered, leathern tally round its neck, with the ship’s time and
    place; and then letting it escape. But I doubt not, that leathern
    tally, meant for man, was taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl
    flew to join the wing-folding, the invoking, and adoring cherubim!

Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the
White Steed of the Prairies; a magnificent milk-white charger,
large-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of a
thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscorning carriage. He was the
elected Xerxes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those
days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At
their flaming head he westward trooped it like that chosen star which
every evening leads on the hosts of light. The flashing cascade of his
mane, the curving comet of his tail, invested him with housings more
resplendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A
most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfallen, western
world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked majestic as a god,
bluff-bowed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid
his aides and marshals in the van of countless cohorts that endlessly
streamed it over the plains, like an Ohio; or whether with his
circumambient subjects browsing all around at the horizon, the White
Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nostrils reddening through
his cool milkiness; in whatever aspect he presented himself, always to
the bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe.
Nor can it be questioned from what stands on legendary record of this
noble horse, that it was his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so
clothed him with divineness; and that this divineness had that in it
which, though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain
nameless terror.

But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
accessory and strange glory which invests it in the White Steed and
Albatross.

What is it that in the Albino man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
the eye, as that sometimes he is loathed by his own kith and kin! It is
that whiteness which invests him, a thing expressed by the name he
bears. The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive
deformity—and yet this mere aspect of all-pervading whiteness makes him
more strangely hideous than the ugliest abortion. Why should this be
so?

Nor, in quite other aspects, does Nature in her least palpable but not
the less malicious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this
crowning attribute of the terrible. From its snowy aspect, the
gauntleted ghost of the Southern Seas has been denominated the White
Squall. Nor, in some historic instances, has the art of human malice
omitted so potent an auxiliary. How wildly it heightens the effect of
that passage in Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol of their
faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their bailiff in the
market-place!

Nor, in some things, does the common, hereditary experience of all
mankind fail to bear witness to the supernaturalism of this hue. It
cannot well be doubted, that the one visible quality in the aspect of
the dead which most appals the gazer, is the marble pallor lingering
there; as if indeed that pallor were as much like the badge of
consternation in the other world, as of mortal trepidation here. And
from that pallor of the dead, we borrow the expressive hue of the
shroud in which we wrap them. Nor even in our superstitions do we fail
to throw the same snowy mantle round our phantoms; all ghosts rising in
a milk-white fog—Yea, while these terrors seize us, let us add, that
even the king of terrors, when personified by the evangelist, rides on
his pallid horse.

Therefore, in his other moods, symbolize whatever grand or gracious
thing he will by whiteness, no man can deny that in its profoundest
idealized significance it calls up a peculiar apparition to the soul.

But though without dissent this point be fixed, how is mortal man to
account for it? To analyse it, would seem impossible. Can we, then, by
the citation of some of those instances wherein this thing of
whiteness—though for the time either wholly or in great part stripped
of all direct associations calculated to impart to it aught fearful,
but, nevertheless, is found to exert over us the same sorcery, however
modified;—can we thus hope to light upon some chance clue to conduct us
to the hidden cause we seek?

Let us try. But in a matter like this, subtlety appeals to subtlety,
and without imagination no man can follow another into these halls. And
though, doubtless, some at least of the imaginative impressions about
to be presented may have been shared by most men, yet few perhaps were
entirely conscious of them at the time, and therefore may not be able
to recall them now.

Why to the man of