heir
tassels soon. Now would all the waves were women, then I’d go drown,
and chassee with them evermore! There’s naught so sweet on earth—heaven
may not match it!—as those swift glances of warm, wild bosoms in the
dance, when the over-arboring arms hide such ripe, bursting grapes.

SICILIAN SAILOR.
(_Reclining._)
Tell me not of it! Hark ye, lad—fleet interlacings of the limbs—lithe
swayings—coyings—flutterings! lip! heart! hip! all graze: unceasing
touch and go! not taste, observe ye, else come satiety. Eh, Pagan?
(_Nudging._)

TAHITAN SAILOR.
(_Reclining on a mat._)
Hail, holy nakedness of our dancing girls!—the Heeva-Heeva! Ah! low
veiled, high palmed Tahiti! I still rest me on thy mat, but the soft
soil has slid! I saw thee woven in the wood, my mat! green the first
day I brought ye thence; now worn and wilted quite. Ah me!—not thou nor
I can bear the change! How then, if so be transplanted to yon sky? Hear
I the roaring streams from Pirohitee’s peak of spears, when they leap
down the crags and drown the villages?—The blast! the blast! Up, spine,
and meet it! (_Leaps to his feet._)

PORTUGUESE SAILOR.
How the sea rolls swashing ’gainst the side! Stand by for reefing,
hearties! the winds are just crossing swords, pell-mell they’ll go
lunging presently.

DANISH SAILOR.
Crack, crack, old ship! so long as thou crackest, thou holdest! Well
done! The mate there holds ye to it stiffly. He’s no more afraid than
the isle fort at Cattegat, put there to fight the Baltic with
storm-lashed guns, on which the sea-salt cakes!

4TH NANTUCKET SAILOR.
He has his orders, mind ye that. I heard old Ahab tell him he must
always kill a squall, something as they burst a waterspout with a
pistol—fire your ship right into it!

ENGLISH SAILOR.
Blood! but that old man’s a grand old cove! We are the lads to hunt him
up his whale!

ALL.
Aye! aye!

OLD MANX SAILOR.
How the three pines shake! Pines are the hardest sort of tree to live
when shifted to any other soil, and here there’s none but the crew’s
cursed clay. Steady, helmsman! steady. This is the sort of weather when
brave hearts snap ashore, and keeled hulls split at sea. Our captain
has his birth-mark; look yonder, boys, there’s another in the
sky—lurid-like, ye see, all else pitch black.

DAGGOO.
What of that? Who’s afraid of black’s afraid of me! I’m quarried out of
it!

SPANISH SAILOR.
(_Aside._) He wants to bully, ah!—the old grudge makes me touchy.
(_Advancing._) Aye, harpooneer, thy race is the undeniable dark side of
mankind—devilish dark at that. No offence.

DAGGOO (_grimly_).
None.

ST. JAGO’S SAILOR.
That Spaniard’s mad or drunk. But that can’t be, or else in his one
case our old Mogul’s fire-waters are somewhat long in working.

5TH NANTUCKET SAILOR.
What’s that I saw—lightning? Yes.

SPANISH SAILOR.
No; Daggoo showing his teeth.

DAGGOO (_springing_).
Swallow thine, mannikin! White skin, white liver!

SPANISH SAILOR (_meeting him_).
Knife thee heartily! big frame, small spirit!

ALL.
A row! a row! a row!

TASHTEGO (_with a whiff_).
A row a’low, and a row aloft—Gods and men—both brawlers! Humph!

BELFAST SAILOR.
A row! arrah a row! The Virgin be blessed, a row! Plunge in with ye!

ENGLISH SAILOR.
Fair play! Snatch the Spaniard’s knife! A ring, a ring!

OLD MANX SAILOR.
Ready formed. There! the ringed horizon. In that ring Cain struck Abel.
Sweet work, right work! No? Why then, God, mad’st thou the ring?

MATE’S VOICE FROM THE QUARTER-DECK.
Hands by the halyards! in top-gallant sails! Stand by to reef topsails!

ALL.
The squall! the squall! jump, my jollies! (_They scatter._)

PIP (_shrinking under the windlass_).
Jollies? Lord help such jollies! Crish, crash! there goes the jib-stay!
Blang-whang! God! Duck lower, Pip, here comes the royal yard! It’s
worse than being in the whirled woods, the last day of the year! Who’d
go climbing after chestnuts now? But there they go, all cursing, and
here I don’t. Fine prospects to ’em; they’re on the road to heaven.
Hold on hard! Jimmini, what a squall! But those chaps there are worse
yet—they are your white squalls, they. White squalls? white whale,
shirr! shirr! Here have I heard all their chat just now, and the white
whale—shirr! shirr!—but spoken of once! and only this evening—it makes
me jingle all over like my tambourine—that anaconda of an old man swore
’em in to hunt him! Oh, thou big white God aloft there somewhere in yon
darkness, have mercy on this small black boy down here; preserve him
from all men that have no bowels to feel fear!




CHAPTER XLI. MOBY DICK


I, Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest;
my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger I shouted, and more
did I hammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab’s quenchless feud
seemed mine. With greedy ears I learned the history of that murderous
monster against whom I and all the others had taken our oaths of
violence and revenge.

For some time past, though at intervals only, the unaccompanied,
secluded White Whale had haunted those uncivilized seas mostly
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of
his existence; only a few of them, comparatively, had knowingly seen
him; while the number who as yet had actually and knowingly given
battle to him, was small indeed. For, owing to the large number of
whale-cruisers; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire
watery circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest
along solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth
or more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-telling sail of any
sort; the inordinate length of each separate voyage; the irregularity
of the times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances,
direct and indirect, long obstructed the spread through the whole
world-wide whaling-fleet of the special individualizing tidings
concerning Moby Dick. It was hardly to be doubted, that several vessels
reported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or on such or
such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity,
which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had
completely escaped them; to some minds it was not an unfair
presumption, I say, that the whale in question must have been no other
than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked
by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and
malice in the monster attacked; therefore it was, that those who by
accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps,
for the most part, were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred,
more, as it were, to the perils of the Sperm Whale fishery at large,
than to the individual cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous
encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been popularly
regarded.

And as for those who, previously hearing of the White Whale, by chance
caught sight of him; in the beginning of the thing they had every one
of them, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any
other whale of that species. But at length, such calamities did ensue
in these assaults—not restricted to sprained wrists and ancles, broken
limbs, or devouring amputations—but fatal to the last degree of
fatality; those repeated disastrous repulses, all accumulating an