t they could hardly tell where
they were or what to think; but every one began to prepare for death.
And, indeed, the shock was so sudden and violent, that we took it for
granted the ship had struck against a rock; but when the amazement was
a little over, we cast the lead, and sounded, but found no ground. * *
* * *
The suddenness of the shock made the guns leap in their carriages, and
several of the men were shaken out of their hammocks. Captain Davis,
who lay with his head on a gun, was thrown out of his cabin!‚Äù Lionel
then goes on to impute the shock to an earthquake, and seems to
substantiate the imputation by stating that a great earthquake,
somewhere about that time, did actually do great mischief along the
Spanish land. But I should not much wonder if, in the darkness of that
early hour of the morning, the shock was after all caused by an unseen
whale vertically bumping the hull from beneath.

I might proceed with several more examples, one way or another known to
me, of the great power and malice at times of the sperm whale. In more
than one instance, he has been known, not only to chase the assailing
boats back to their ships, but to pursue the ship itself, and long
withstand all the lances hurled at him from its decks. The English ship
Pusie Hall can tell a story on that head; and, as for his strength, let
me say, that there have been examples where the lines attached to a
running sperm whale have, in a calm, been transferred to the ship, and
secured there; the whale towing her great hull through the w