the
White Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the
Town-Ho’s story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whale a
certain wondrous, inverted visitation of one of those so called
judgments of God which at times are said to overtake some men. This
latter circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming
what may be called the secret part of the tragedy about to be narrated,
never reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret
part of the story was unknown to the captain of the Town-Ho himself. It
was the private property of three confederate white seamen of that
ship, one of whom, it seems, communicated it to Tashtego with Romish
injunctions of secresy, but the following night Tashtego rambled in his
sleep, and revealed so much of it in that way, that when he was wakened
he could not well withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an
influence did this thing have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to
the full knowledge of it, and by such a strange delicacy, to call it
so, were they governed in this matter, that they kept the secret among
themselves so that it never transpired abaft the Pequod’s main-mast.
Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story as
publicly narrated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair I now
proceed to put on lasting record.

[10] The ancient whale-cry upon first sighting a whale from the
mast-head, still used by whalemen in hunting the famous Gallipagos
terrapin.

For my humor’s sake, I shall preserve the style in which I once
narrated it at Lima, to a lounging circle of my Spanish friends, one
saint’s eve, smoking upon the thick-gilt tiled piazza of the Golden
Inn. Of those fine cavaliers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were
on the closer terms with me; and hence the interluding questions they
occasionally put, and which 