ness of towing the trophy to the Pequod. And now, as we eighteen
men with our thirty-six arms, and one hundred and eighty thumbs and
fingers, slowly toiled hour after hour upon that inert, sluggish corpse
in the sea; and it seemed hardly to budge at all, except at long
intervals; good evidence was hereby furnished of the enormousness of
the mass we moved. For, upon the great canal of Hang-Ho, or whatever
they call it, in China, four or five laborers on the foot-path will
draw a bulky freighted junk at the rate of a mile an hour; but this
grand argosy we towed heavily forged along, as if laden with pig-lead
in bulk.

Darkness came on; but three lights up and down in the Pequod’s
main-rigging dimly guided our way; till drawing nearer we saw Ahab
dropping one of several more lanterns over the bulwarks. Vacantly
eyeing the heaving whale for a moment, he issued the usual orders for
securing it for the night, and then handing his lantern to a seaman,
went his way into the cabin, and did not come forward again until
morning.

Though, in overseeing the pursuit of this whale, Captain Ahab had
evinced his customary activity, to call it so; yet now that the
creature was dead, some vague dissatisfaction, or impatience, or
despair, seemed working in him; as if the sight of that dead body
reminded him that Moby Dick was yet to be slain; and though a thousand
other whales were brought to his ship, all that would not one jot
advance his grand, monomaniac object. Very soon you would have thought
from the sound on the Pequod’s decks, that all hands were preparing to
cast anchor in the deep; for heavy chains are being dragged along the
deck, and thrust rattling out of the port-holes. But by those clanking
links, the vast corpse itself, not the ship, is to be moored. Tied by
the head to the stern, and by the tail to the bows, the whale now lies
with its black hull close to the vessel’s, and seen through the
darkness of the night, which obscured the spars and rigging aloft, the
two—ship and whale, seemed yoked together like colossal bullocks,
whereof one reclines while the other remains standing.[14]

 [14] A little item may as well be related here. The strongest and most
 reliable hold which the ship has upon the whale when moored alongside,
 is by the flukes or tail; and as from its greater density that part is
 relatively heavier than any other (excepting the side-fins), its
 flexibility even in death, causes it to sink low beneath the surface;
 so that with the hand you cannot get at it from the boat, in order to
 put the chain round it. But this difficulty is ingeniously overcome: a
 small, strong line is prepared with a wooden float at its outer end,
 and a weight in its middle, while the other end is secured to the
 ship. By adroit management the wooden float is made to rise on the
 other side of the mass, so that now having girdled the whale, the
 chain is readily made to follow suit; and being slipped along the
 body, is at last locked fast round the smallest part of the tail, at
 the point of junction with its broad flukes or lobes.

If moody Ahab was now all quiescence, at least so far as could be known
on deck, Stubb, his second mate, flushed with conquest, betrayed an
unusual but still good-natured excitement. Such an unwonted bustle was
he in that the staid Starbuck, his official superior, quietly resigned
to him for the time the sole management of affairs. One small, helping
cause of all this liveliness in Stubb, was soon made strangely
manifest. Stubb was a high liver; he was somewhat intemperately fond of
the whale as