He had a special passion, also, for ecclesiastical vestments, as indeed he had for
everything connected with the service of the Church. In the long cedar chests that lined
the west gallery of his house, he had stored away many rare and beautiful specimens of
what is really the raiment of the Bride of Christ, who must wear purple and jewels and
fine linen that she may hide the pallid macerated body that is worn by the suffering that 
she seeks for and wounded by self-inflicted pain. He possessed a gorgeous cope of
crimson silk and gold-thread damask, figured with a repeating pattern of golden
pomegranates set in six-petalled formal blossoms, beyond which on either side was the
pine-apple device wrought in seed-pearls. The orphreys were divided into panels
representing scenes from the life of the Virgin, and the coronation of the Virgin was
figured in coloured silks upon the hood. This was Italian work of the fifteenth century.
Another cope was of green velvet, embroidered with heart-shaped groups of acanthusleaves, from which spread long-stemmed white blossoms, the details of which were
picked out with silver thread and coloured crystals. The morse bore a seraphâ€™s head in
gold-thread raised work. The orphreys were woven in a diaper of red and gold silk, and
were starred with medallions of many saints and martyrs, among whom was St.
Sebastian. He had chasubles, also, of amber-coloured silk, and blue silk and gold
brocade, and yellow silk damask and cloth of gold, figured with representations of the
Passion and Crucifixion of Christ, and embroidered with lions and peacocks and other
emblems; dalmatics of white satin and pink silk damask, decorated with tulips and
dolphins and fleurs-de-lis; altar frontals of crimson velvet and blue linen; and many
corporals, chalice-veils, and sudaria. In the mystic offices to which such things were
